# Highlights
- A path model is a graphical way to represent a regression equation or several linked regression equations. Example on P82 explains such. The main point of such a model is to infer causation relationships between variables.
- P86: Standardizing might be sensible if (i) units are meaningful only in comparative terms (e.g., prestige points), or (ii) the meaning of units changes over time (e.g., years of education) while correlations are stable. If the object is to find laws of nature that are stable under intervention, standardizing may be a bad idea, because estimated parameters would depend on irrelevant details of the study design. Generally, the intervention idea gets muddier with standardization. It will be difficult to hold the standard deviations constant when individual values are manipulated. The correlation is invariant to intervention.
- The response schedule: $Y_{i,x} = a + bx + \epsilon_i$ describes a theoretical relationship between $y$ and $x$, and $x$ is just a placeholder, and causation is built in the response schedule. Two assumptions: (i) data are generated by the response schedule; (ii) $x_i$ were chosen at random by nature and are independent from $\epsilon_i$, i.e., exogeneity. If the theory is right, causal effects can be estimated from observational data by regression, o.w., regression coefficients measure association not causation, and causal inferences can be quite misleading.
- P100: path models do not infer causation from association. Instead, path models assume causation through response schedules, and using additional statistical assumptions to estiamte causal effects from observational data.

(I am still a little confused by difference between path models and regression, my current understanding is that the former is more fundamental in causation, and uses the later to estimate the causation effects. Results are valid only when assumptions are correct.)

### Exercise 6.7.5
This exercise proposes a path model built between citation numbers and a number of variables, and is estimated based on data from investigators in academic. The question asks if the model is valid, and the answer gives some questions that are critical and insightful, s.t.,
1. The sample is peculiar, who are these people?
2. What do the measurements mean? They might be based on circumstantial evidence.
3. Why should we believe any of the statistical assumptions? For example, one variable is qualitative and is once in the LHS in the path model.

### Exercise 6.7.11
